---
layout: post
title: Rubber dam scheme to bring 7,500 hectares under irrigation
date: 2017-04-21 01:34
author: iwrmbarind
comments: true
categories: [IWRM, Newspaper]
---
<p style="text-align:justify;">CHAPAINAWABGANJ, July 11: The ever largest rubber dam scheme in the country is going to be constructed in Mohananda River in Chapainawabganj district in order to bring back its navigability and more than 7,500 hectares of land under irrigation, reports BSS. Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) has finalized a complete design of the scheme set to be implemented with an estimated cost of around Taka 177 crore. There will be a revolutionary change in the region's agriculture sector upon successful implementation of the mega project, experts opined. According to the sources concerned, the vast Barind tract is being turned into a waterless condition due to various natural and manmade catastrophes like Farakka Barrage, reduction of annual rainfall and climate change. As a result, the issue of cropping depletion is gradually being surfaced. In the adverse situation, demand of rubber dam construction has been mounted for the best uses of river water for irrigation purposes. At a huge public meeting in Chapainawabganj on April 23, 2011, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina had given an assurance of rubber dam construction on Mohananda River responding to the local demands. Later on, BWDB adopted a project titled "Rubber Dam Construction and River Dredging in Mohananda" for implementation of the Prime Minister's announcement. Subsequently, Institute of Water Modeling (IWM) was given responsibility for feasibility study. After the feasibility study by the last yearend, IWM formulated a draft design selecting a 42-point site from Mokarampur Ghat in Gomostapur Upazila to Dariapur Ghat in Chapainwabganj municipality. However, the Rehairchar site near Chapainawabgonj town, around half- kilometer downstream of the Beershrestha Captain Mohiuddin Jahangir Bridge, has been fixed for construction of the rubber dam in the design that was finalized in April last. BWDB Executive Engineer Shahidul Islam here told BSS that the ever largest rubber dam scheme is going to be implemented in Mohananda River. 36 kilometer areas 10 kilometers in upstream and 26 kilometers in downstream of the 353-kilometer proposed dam will be brought under dredging. Upon successful implementation of the scheme, more than 7,500 hectares of land will be brought under irrigation in surrounding areas. In this regard, he said, the retained water could easily be used for supplementary irrigation of aman, wheat, pulse, oil seeds and vegetables cultivation along with pisciculture and duck farming. It will also create employment opportunities for the day labourers and marginal farmers in agriculture and living and livelihood condition of the farmers' community is likely to the improved through crop production. As a whole, the scheme will facilitate boosting round the year surface water uses for irrigation purposes. Engineer Shahidul Islam said, it would also help improve environment there, a common concern of the area.</p>
<p style="text-align:justify;"><a href="http://www.newstoday.com.bd/index.php?option=details&amp;news_id=2446862&amp;date=2016-07-12" target="_blank">Link of Newspaper </a></p>
